Add library codegen docs for Kotlin, Swift, TypeScript (#1698)
avohq/docs: pages/reference/avo-codegen/library-codegen.mdx

4. **TypeScript: `AvoDestination` interface.** Custom destinations implement `AvoDestination` with `make / logEvent / setUserProperties`. All-or-nothing — provide implementations for every `DestinationKey`, or omit `destinations` entirely and fan out manually.
5. **System properties.** `setSystemProperties(...)` / `Avo.setSystemProperties(...)` becomes `AppSystemProperties.configure(...)` (Kotlin) or `AppSystemProperties.shared.configure({...})` (Swift, TypeScript). `verify()` and `process()` / `track()` throw `AvoVerificationError` with the message "AppSystemProperties.configure() must be called before sending events." if a tracked event needs system properties and `configure()` hasn't run.
6. **Imports.** Add the library file to your build and import its types where you previously imported from the single file. In Swift this is `import Library` (if you packaged it that way); in Kotlin it's `import sh.avo.*` (or whatever package your source path resolves to); in TypeScript it's `import { ... } from './Avo'` (the app file re-exports the public library surface).

### Open items

> - **Multi-source versioning.** If you have multiple library-mode sources at different codegen versions sharing the same library file, there's currently no built-in mechanism to reconcile them. A real mechanism will land in a future release; in the meantime regenerate from the same CLI version across sources.

Reviewer: No need for users to be aware of that, we'll need to keep it in mind internally. can remove the section from docs

Author: Fixed in 54db72a5. Removed the entire "process() / track() throws AvoVerificationError" item from the What changes list. The quick-start examples already demonstrate the try/catch, and the NSException-vs-AvoVerificationError comparison was the internal detail you flagged. Folded a one-line try/catch reminder into the event-method-call bullet for migration discoverability.

Reviewer: Oh noes, it hallucinated and removed a completely different thing 😅 The thing to remove is:

### Open items

- **Multi-source versioning.** If you have multiple library-mode sources at different codegen versions sharing the same library file, there's currently no built-in mechanism to reconcile them. A real mechanism will land in a future release; in the meantime regenerate from the same CLI version across sources.

Author: Fixed in 2eaad751. Restored the "process() / track() throws AvoVerificationError" item in What changes, and removed the Open items / multi-source versioning section instead. Apologies for the misread on the previous pass.

    console.error('[avo]', e.messages.join(', '));
  } else {
    throw e;
  }
}
```

`AvoDestination` (`make`, `logEvent`, `setUserProperties`) plays the same role as the custom destination interface in the single-source output — the shape is different but the idea is the same. `destinations` is all-or-nothing: if you provide any, you must provide an implementation for every `DestinationKey` or `Avo.init` will throw.

If the all-or-nothing model doesn't fit (for example, you want to fan out manually for some destinations), omit `destinations` and fan out yourself:

```ts
const avo = Avo.init({ env: AvoEnv.Dev }, codegenConfig);

try {
  const payloads = avo.track(new LoginSuccessEvent(1730000000, 'team_42', 'acme.example'));

  const custom = payloads['Custom'];
  if (custom) {
    myAnalyticsSDK.logEvent(custom.name, custom.properties);
  }
} catch (e) {
  if (e instanceof AvoVerificationError) {
    console.error('[avo]', e.messages.join(', '));
  } else {
    throw e;
  }
}
```

`track()` returns `Record<string, AvoDestinationEvent>` keyed by `DestinationKey` from `AvoConfig.ts`. It throws `AvoVerificationError` the same way Kotlin/Swift do.

> For a worked example of a TypeScript library-mode setup, see `platform_tests/typescript/web/LibraryInterfaceApp/src/AvoLibrary.ts` in the monorepo.

Reviewer: This is internal code, don't leak it to the docs

Author: Removed in 2eaad751. Dropped the platform_tests path reference — agreed, that is internal monorepo code and should not leak to docs.

Library mode is the better fit when you have multiple Avo sources sharing the same app, when you're building an internal tracking library reused across apps, or when you want the runtime code separated from the per-source event types.

---

## 1. The shape of library mode

`avo pull` emits multiple files per source instead of one. The shared source-independent runtime — `Avo` class, validation helpers, `AvoEvent` protocol/interface, `AvoInvoke` — lives in a separate "library" file. The per-source "app" file contains only the things that change when your tracking plan changes: per-event classes and the codegen-bound IDs. Optionally, a third file is extracted with everything needed for `Avo` initialization, so initialization can be decoupled from the apps too.

### What gets generated

- **Library file**: the runtime. `AvoEnv`, `AvoAssert`, `AvoInvoke`, the `AvoEvent` protocol/interface, and the `Avo` class. Regenerated rarely. Every source generates an identical library file. Shared across all sources/apps. Optionally orchestrated from a single place — "the library".
- **App file**: per-source types and a thin config object. Regenerated whenever the tracking plan source changes.

> - In TypeScript, a third file `AvoConfig.ts` holds the codegen-bound `schemaId`/`actionId`/`branchId`/`sourceId` plus destination API keys. It has no runtime imports — just the values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In TypeScript, a third file `AvoConfig.ts` holds the source config with `schemaId`/`actionId`/`branchId`/`sourceId` plus destination API keys. It has no runtime imports — just the values.
```

- **One shape of destination wiring per app.** The destination was bound to the `Avo` instance at construction time. Sharing tracking code across apps in a monorepo, or routing the same events to different SDKs in different builds, was awkward.
- **Runtime code couldn't be shared.** Two sources in the same project produced two copies of the runtime — same `AvoAssert`, same `AvoInvoke`, duplicated.

### What's different now

- **Library file**: the runtime. `AvoEnv`, `AvoAssert`, `AvoInvoke`, the `AvoEvent` protocol/interface, and the `Avo` class. Regenerated rarely.
- **App file**: per-event types and a thin config object. Regenerated whenever the tracking plan changes.
- **TypeScript only**: a third file, `AvoConfig.ts`, holds the codegen-bound `schemaId`/`actionId`/`branchId`/`sourceId` plus destination API keys. It has no runtime imports — just the values.

### Mental model

Events are values you construct. The `Avo` instance turns them into per-destination payloads.

```
LoginSuccessEvent(name = "Alice")  ──┐
                                     ├──> avo.process / avo.track ──> { "Custom": AvoDestinationEvent(...) }

>             (a plain data type)      ┘

Reviewer: Not sure about the format here, does it look good?

Author: Kept the ASCII diagram for now — it visually separates "event you construct" from "runtime turns it into a payload map", which is the conceptual point of library mode. If it reads poorly to you, two alternatives I can swap in: a) a prose-only Mental model section, or b) a Mermaid flowchart that renders in Nextra. Happy to switch — let me know which works better.

Reviewer: Let's do prose-only Mental model section, I don't get what this diagram wants to tell me

Author: Haha it looks a bit weird

<img width="896" height="359" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/335bdd7d-c633-4106-b0d1-270da878bec3" />

Reviewer: I also don't get what the left side means

Author: Replaced the diagram with prose in 2eaad751. The Mental model section now reads as a paragraph: build an event instance, pass it to avo.process / avo.track, get back a per-destination payload map.
